# Amazon-Sales-data-Analysis 
This project focuses on enhancing product salling and understanding market trends for an online product salling platform. A data warehouse was designed to store and manage products and order sales data. The project involved analyzing orders data, forecasting sales trends, and building personalized recommendation systems. These insights help businesses identify profitable segments and optimize marketing efforts, leading to growth and increased customer satisfaction.

## Dataset Structure
The dataset for this project was organized into Excel data warehouse that store sales data information.
  - [Amazon sales data :](https://github.com/jemisha29/Amazon-Sales-data-Analysis/blob/main/Amazon%20Sales%20data.csv) Contain information about orders date, item type, unit price, cost price, region etc.

## Tools

  * **Excel** - Data Cleaning & Data Analysis
  * **PowerBI** - Creating reports

  Power BI Dashboard : [here](https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/reports/84dda7c5-5a02-41a6-a33b-70278be6c204/64effd4ec6df62bfc77c?experience=power-bi)
  
## Analysis 
### KPI's
  1. Total Units Sold
  2. Total Unit Price
  3. Total Unit Cost
  4. Total Revenue
  5. Total Profit
  6. Total Cost
  7. Profit Margin
  8. Average Order Value
  9. Average Unit Cost
  10. Average Unit Price

### Chart's 
  1. What is the total revenue generated by Region?
  2. What is the total profit generated by Item types?
  3. Which country has the highest profit?
  4. What is the total cost generated by sales channel?
  5. Which sales channel generate more profit?
  6. Which sales channel generate more Revenue?
  7. Which sales channel salling more units?
  8. Which item type sold most?
  9. Salling units over daily trend?
  10. Visualize order priority by region and order priority.


